feat(playground): add new router view (#195)
GreptimeTeam/dashboard: src/views/dashboard/playground/docs/getting-started.md

```

​
Modify the value and timestamp, we can ingest more entries.
​

``` sql
INSERT INTO system_metrics
VALUES
    ("host1", "idc_a", 30.2, 50.1, 11.0, 1667446794480),
    ("host2", "idc_a", 60.8, 74.9, 96.2, 1667446795490),
    ("host1", "idc_b", 30.0, 65.7, 40.2, 1667446796500);
```

​

## Query Data with SQL

​
GreptimeDB supports full SQL for you to query data from a database.
​

``` sql
SELECT * FROM system_metrics;
```

​
Here are some query examples for the `system_metrics` so you can get familiar
with using SQL alongside GreptimeDB functions.
​
Use `count()` function to get the number of all rows in the table:
​

``` sql
SELECT count(*) FROM system_metrics;
```

​
Use `avg()` function returns the average value of a certain field:
​

``` sql
SELECT avg(cpu_util) FROM system_metrics;
```

​
You can use the `GROUP BY` clause to group rows that have the same values into
summary rows. The average memory usage grouped by `idc`:
​

```sql
SELECT idc, avg(memory_util) FROM system_metrics GROUP BY idc;
```

​

## Explore by Yourself

​
Enough with the basics, try to write your own query and do some exploration.
​

```sql
-- Type your SQL here
​
```

​

> Full more advanced features like scripting, various protocol support,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more advanced features like scripting and protocol support,
```

> [Download](https://greptime.com/downloads/) GreptimeDB on your machine and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Download](https://greptime.com/download/) GreptimeDB on your machine and
```

---
title: Quick Start
---
# Getting Started

## Preface
Greetings from Greptime Play! This guide will get you familiar with the very
basics of GreptimeDB. Instead of static doc reading, Greptime Play offers an
interactive experience: **all code blocks in this guide are editable and
executable**.

By hitting `Run` button, code will be executed in a temporary, private instance
from [GreptimeCloud](https://greptime.com/product/cloud). **You can also edit
the code to explore your own ideas**. Note that the session is valid in **1
hour**, you will be asked to create a new one when it's expired and recycled. So
never store important data in Greptime Play sessions.

## Create a Time-Series Table

Let's start by creating the `system_metrics` table. Note that we defined `host`
and `idc` as primary key, and `ts` and time index, both are important concepts
in GreptimeDB. Hit `Run` to create the table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS system_metrics (
    host STRING,
    idc STRING,
    cpu_util DOUBLE,
    memory_util DOUBLE,
    disk_util DOUBLE,
    ts TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    PRIMARY KEY(host, idc),
    TIME INDEX(ts)
);
```

> Once you see the green marker, run `DESC TABLE` to check detail of the table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the green marker appears, run `DESC TABLE` to view the details of the table.
```

In GreptimeDB, there are three kinds of column in term of semantic type:

> - `PRIMARY KEY`: Key columns used for sorting and partition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `PRIMARY KEY`: key columns that are used for sorting and partitioning
```

> - `FIELD`: Value columns that hold values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `FIELD`: columns which store values
```

> - `TIME INDEX`: The time column

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `TIME INDEX`: columns of data type TIME
```

```sql
DESC TABLE system_metrics;
```

## Add Some Data

> Using the `INSERT` statement is an easy way to add data to your table. Through

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the `INSERT` statement to easily add data to the table. 
```

> the statement below, we have inserted three rows into the `system_metrics`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below example inserts three rows into the `system_metrics` 
```

table.

``` sql
INSERT INTO system_metrics
VALUES
    ("host1", "idc_a", 11.8, 10.3, 10.3, 1667446791450),
    ("host2", "idc_a", 80.1, 70.3, 90.0, 1667446792460),
    ("host1", "idc_b", 50.0, 66.7, 40.6, 1667446793470);
```

> Modify the value and timestamp, we can ingest more entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ingest more entries by modifying the values and timestamps.
```

``` sql
INSERT INTO system_metrics
VALUES
    ("host1", "idc_a", 30.2, 50.1, 11.0, 1667446794480),
    ("host2", "idc_a", 60.8, 74.9, 96.2, 1667446795490),
    ("host1", "idc_b", 30.0, 65.7, 40.2, 1667446796500);
```

## Query Data with SQL

> GreptimeDB supports full SQL for you to query data from a database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GreptimeDB fully supports SQL.
```

``` sql
SELECT * FROM system_metrics ORDER BY ts DESC;
```

> Here are some query examples for the `system_metrics` so you can get familiar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some query examples for the `system_metrics` for users to get familiar
```

> with using SQL alongside GreptimeDB functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with using SQL alongside GreptimeDB's functions.
```

Use `count()` function to get the number of all rows in the table:

``` sql
SELECT count(*) FROM system_metrics;
```

Use `avg()` function returns the average value of a certain field:

``` sql
SELECT avg(cpu_util) FROM system_metrics;
```

> You can use the `GROUP BY` clause to group rows that have the same values into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `GROUP BY` clause to group rows that have the same values into
```

summary rows. The average memory usage grouped by `idc`:

```sql
SELECT idc, avg(memory_util) FROM system_metrics GROUP BY idc;
```

## Explore by Yourself

> Enough with the basics, try to write your own query and do some exploration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please start exploring by writing some queries!
```

```sql

> -- Type your SQL here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-- Type SQL statements here
```

```

For more advanced features like scripting and protocol support,

> [Download](https://greptime.com/download/) GreptimeDB on your machine and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Download](https://greptime.com/download/) and run GreptimeDB locally by
```

> follow our [docs](https://docs.greptime.com).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
following [docs](https://docs.greptime.com).
```

Using the `INSERT` statement to easily add data to the table. 
Below example inserts three rows into the `system_metrics` 
table.

``` sql
INSERT INTO system_metrics
VALUES
    ("host1", "idc_a", 11.8, 10.3, 10.3, 1667446791450),
    ("host2", "idc_a", 80.1, 70.3, 90.0, 1667446792460),
    ("host1", "idc_b", 50.0, 66.7, 40.6, 1667446793470);
```

Ingest more entries by modifying the values and timestamps.

``` sql
INSERT INTO system_metrics
VALUES
    ("host1", "idc_a", 30.2, 50.1, 11.0, 1667446794480),
    ("host2", "idc_a", 60.8, 74.9, 96.2, 1667446795490),
    ("host1", "idc_b", 30.0, 65.7, 40.2, 1667446796500);
```

## Query Data with SQL

GreptimeDB fully supports SQL.

``` sql
SELECT * FROM system_metrics ORDER BY ts DESC;
```

Here are some query examples for the `system_metrics` so you can get familiar
with using SQL alongside GreptimeDB's functions.

Use `count()` function to get the number of all rows in the table:

``` sql
SELECT count(*) FROM system_metrics;
```

Use `avg()` function returns the average value of a certain field:

``` sql
SELECT avg(cpu_util) FROM system_metrics;
```

Use the `GROUP BY` clause to group rows that have the same values into

> summary rows. The average memory usage grouped by `idc`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary rows. The code below groups average memory usage by `idc`:
```

```sql
SELECT idc, avg(memory_util) FROM system_metrics GROUP BY idc;
```

There are more aggregate function available, change `avg` to any of these below
and try out:

- `max`
- `min`
- `sum`
- `mean`

> ## Explore by Yourself

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Try it Out
```

> Please start exploring by writing some queries!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please start exploring by writing some queries in the panel below!
```

```sql

```

> For more advanced features like scripting and protocol support,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For other advanced features like scripting and protocol supports,
```
